This video we're gonna be taking a look at Java being validation.
So this actually official API is part of Java came out under originally under GSR three or three and
this is what kind of introduced the concept of Java being validation.
Now before we had this toolset it was all up to you to do validation so it can be rather painful and
actually really made your code pretty ugly.
As far as all is property checking that you'd want to do inside a code and validations the bean validation
that actually made things a lot simpler.
And that's a nice framework it's the initial iteration was released on November 16th in 2009 and this
has been part of Java EE Version 6 or above.
So this is Jess are three or three.
This was also implemented in spring in version three of the spring framework and we're on Version 5
now.
So the primary ballot focus originally was to define annotations for data validation.
The first iteration here on three or three was primarily targeted at field level properties.
Now we had a conditional release come out.
Jess are 349 This is released on April 10th in 2013.
So still a little ways back but this got put in to G 7 and also spring framework for so kind of built
upon the one dot one specification and this expanded out to method level validation also input parameters
so you could start using as annotations are a more flexible way and then it also includes dependency
injection for being validation component so more of a framework that could be used within your code.
Now they didn't stop there just recently GSR 380 was ratified this was approved in August of 2017 originally
and a two spring framework five.
And it was I actually got into a spring framework five and released candidate two and this is going
to be available in all spring boot to Spring Boot to us where we switched over a spring framework five.
This is going to use hibernate validator six auto so the GSR the implementations that basically defined
an API the hibernate validator that is an implementation of that API much like JPA is part of the Java
itself it's part of the Java specification but that is only an API set of interfaces basically and it
is up to you to select an implementation so hibernate is a very popular implementation of it hibernate
validator as implantation of the bean validation API and as far as I know I believe hibernate validator
is the only implementation for Java.
To my knowledge I could be very wrong in that but I don't know of another implementation of being validation
2.0.
The primary goal of the second release was to use the Java 8 language features and then it also added
an about eleven additional validation annotations so the remainder of everything that we'll talk about
is going to be talking about being validation 2.0 specifically and be using that throughout the course.
So we're not going to be talking about the previous release.
Now the built in constraints that we get out of the box have been validation.
We have now to see if a value is no not no obviously not at.
And then cert True or false.
Men and Max these player two numbers then we have decimal min and max these applied obviously decimal
positions negative negative or zero.
Those are pretty self-explanatory and then positive or zero again opposite of negative.
Sighs This is an important one this is gonna check if a string is this size or it can also be applied
to a collection.
So if you're getting back a list you will make sure that that list has a certain number of properties.
And that's going to be a minimum and maximum digits this can check four digits in fractions of digits.
Then past past or present future a future present these are going to be dealing with the date in relation
to the current date pattern.
This is gonna give you the capability check against a regex pattern then we have not empty now empty
and not blank or two different things though not empty checks if it is null or empty so you could have
space characters or line breaks or something in there that technically is not empty and then not blank
is going to make sure that you do have a string in there.
So I can have a series of spaces and not blank will fail if it's just spaces.
So you want some non whitespace characters there and then email RSA and you can check to see if the
value is a valid email address.
Script assert this is a kind of a tricky one to use.
I've never used it.
Never had a need to use it but you can provide a script to test the entire class.
So kind of an edge case.
I've never actually seen it used no other but never had to use it.
A handy one is a credit card that's going to validate that is a valid credit card number.
There's actually a lot that goes into credit card numbers there's a long if you're curious Google valid
credit card numbers there's like an entire wiki page on it.
So quite a bit to that currency this can deal with currencies make sure that you have a valid currency
amount and then we have two annotations in relation to durations.
And one thing I would point out is when I got to the script assert forgot to mention this at the beginning
of the slide.
These are hibernate validator specific constraints so previously what we're looking at was everything
it being validation hibernate hibernate validator is giving you these additional bonuses and these are
not part of the bean validation specification but they are part of hibernate validator so continue here
and that is a one that stands for other things.
It's a European product code that is deal with retail operations.
Azman that's books as a number for publishing two standards there and then we have length.
We make sure that a string length is a specific manner or Max could point length validates Cove Point
length as of the annotated character sequences between men and Max included.
And I'm not sure where you use that but that could be a handy one for some type of case.
Got a couple of different checksum.
So these are loan Chuck Montaigne model Levin.
There's a specific use cases where those may be handy for something that you are working on to validate
some type of user input range number between a specific range.
Then we have the email so you can take in an Asian you know string and make sure that there's no malicious
characters in their unique element.
So this is going to go through a collection make sure that you have unique elements in it so validating
a list has unique entries.
Girl that's pretty self-explanatory.
And then I read validator also gives you some very specific country constraints so you can see there
on the slide.
Here we have a couple for Brazilian and then some Polish validators as well.
Now as far as usage goes we'll be getting into some usage coming up in the course.
I'm really validator version 6 is as far as I know the only implementation of being validation 2.0 there
might be another one being developed out there.
I am honestly not aware of it.
I really stuff works great for this.
The documentation around the validation capabilities hibernate has some really good documentation.
I'm not going to be able go too far into depth as far as how all the validation stuff works.
There's actually a fairly robust toolset I highly recommend no don't read the official documentation
there's a lot of really cool stuff to do with it and then bullet point there hibernate is likely to
add additional predefined validators so I've gone through what was defined right now at this point in
time I fully expect that they'll probably add additional validators in upcoming releases of the a validator
and then also if you have a use case where you need to create your own you can actually define custom
validators and this can be very handy.
I've seen a need for this a number of times so if you have a specific use case to define a validator
that you want to be able to reuse amongst your projects or within your project or over several projects
you can create your own custom validator and provide an implementation of that for your own personal
use.